# Introduction 🤖**FinTrack** is a ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) project designed to process financial transactions data sourced from Kaggle's [Transactions Fraud Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/computingvictor/transactions-fraud-datasets?resource=download&select=train_fraud_labels.json). The project transforms raw data into a well-structured PostgreSQL database, enabling seamless analysis, fraud detection, and reporting.---## Project Overview 📊The project workflow begins with data extraction, followed by transformation where the dataset is cleaned, normalized, and organized for usability. The final step involves loading the refined data into a PostgreSQL database. The resulting database provides an efficient structure for storing financial transactions, fraud labels, and supporting data, enabling data-driven decision-making in financial operations.---## Tech Stack ⚙️- **Python**: Core programming language for data extraction and transformation.- **SQL**: Used for schema creation and database manipulation.- **SQLAlchemy**: For database interaction.- **Pandas**: For data manipulation and preprocessing.- **Git**: Version control for managing project code and collaboration.---## Database Design 🗃️The database schema is built to ensure efficiency, scalability, and maintainability. It consists of the following tables:#### `cards_data`- Contains comprehensive details about credit cards.#### `zipcodes`- Stores all U.S. zip codes along with their respective cities.- The data comes from public records and has been checked for accuracy. (Source: [SimpleMaps US Zips](https://simplemaps.com/data/us-zips))#### `cities`- Maintains a list of all cities in the U.S.- Originally part of the `zipcodes` table, this was normalized into a separate table for better database design.#### `clients_data`- Holds relevant information about clients, enabling client-specific insights.#### `mcc_codes`- Includes standardized Merchant Category Codes (MCC) along with their descriptions.- Useful for categorizing transactions by merchant type.#### `merchants`- Stores relevant details about merchants involved in transactions.#### `fraud_labels`- Tracks transactions using `transactions_id` and indicates whether each transaction is fraudulent or not.---## Key Features ⭐- **Normalized Schema**: Optimized for performance and scalability, reducing redundancy and ensuring data integrity.- **Data Transformation**: Involves cleaning, structuring, and enriching raw data for usability.- **Fraud Detection-Ready**: Provides a foundation for advanced fraud detection models and analysis.---**Fintrack** demonstrates the practical application of ETL workflows in financial data processing, offering a powerful foundation for exploring trends, detecting fraud, and supporting decision-making in financial systems.## Quick Start 🚀Follow these steps to quickly set up and run the project:### 1. Clone the repositoryFirst, clone the repo to your local machine: ```bash    git clone https://github.com/alon-cohen-23/FinTrack.git ``` ### 2. Install the dependenciesNavigate to the project directory and install the required dependencies using pip:  ```bash    cd FinTrack    pip install -r requirements.txt  ```### 3. Create an empty PostgreSQL databaseYou can use either pgAdmin or psql to create an empty PostgreSQL database.### 4. Configure the database connectionOpen the config.yaml file and update the database connection settings with your own:    ```bash    code config.yaml  ```  ### 5. Run the applicationFinally, run the main.py script to upload the processed tables to the database:  ```bash    python main.py  ```